Executive Summary

Operating successfully in the online short-term rental industry involves providing a pleasant experience to both, the users looking to book properties and the property owners renting their resources. To augment the given use case in hand, we undertook the project to solve it in two halves. Firstly, we gathered data from VRBO.com, one of Airbnb's largest competitors, to identify various attributes that determine the pricing for properties in well-known US cities like San Francisco, New York, Chicago, and many more. This part of the project where we identify, gather, and prepare the data required for our analysis has already been completed in BAX 422. And now, as part of this report, we will detail the second task, where we utilize the collected data to further perform two essential sub-tasks using machine learning algorithms. The first sub-task is to develop algorithms that will analyze the pricing trends on VRBO.com1, and then use the models to predict rental property prices based on the factors that will best describe a relationship with ‘price’. The second sub-task is to use the algorithms to offer customer-centric recommendations to property owners based on the reviews on their property, enabling them to improve their property listings for better profitability and increased booking chances. In this report, we will delve into our discoveries from machine learning model results to guide business owners in this industry.

Our goal through this project is to enhance user experience, increase engagement, and supplement usage of short-term rentals like VRBO, among customers by providing fairly determined prices and promoting a more transparent listing that can ultimately create business value. The insights obtained from this project will be useful for home rental business owners, allowing them to make well-informed decisions about prices and amenities that can optimize their properties for the market. Furthermore, since the project concentrates on popular tourist destinations in the US, it is particularly relevant to the hospitality sector, providing stakeholders with valuable insights into consumer behavior and preferences. Overall, this project has the potential to contribute to the growth and evolution of the short-term rental market, while also providing significant value to users and industry stakeholders.
